Creating : Modify sysctl parameters for specific usecases on MKS (#7385)
ovh/docs: pages/public_cloud/containers_orchestration/managed_kubernetes/configuring-sysctl-parameters-on-nodes/guide.en-gb.md

---
title: Adapt your Inotify parameters for your Managed Kubernetes Service deployments
excerpt: 'Adapt your Inotify parameters for your deployments which need specific Inotify parameters'
updated: 2025-01-13
---

## Objective

The OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes service gives you access to Kubernetes clusters, without the hassle of installing or operating them.
But for some specific usecases, you may have to customize nodes parameters.

> This guide will cover the modification of the Sysctl parameters which takes in charge the Inotify part and allows you to open more files simultaneously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will cover the customization of the sysctl parameters which define user limits on the number of inotify resources and inotify file watches.
```

## Requirements

- A [Public Cloud project](/links/public-cloud/public-cloud) in your OVHcloud account
- Access to the [OVHcloud Control Panel](/links/manager)
- An OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster
- Access to your OVHcloud Managed Kubernetes cluster through the Kubeconfig file
- You must have the [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/overview/){.external} command-line tool installed
- Your Kubeconfig is exported into your terminal following this guide : [Configuring Kubectl](/pages/public_cloud/containers_orchestration/managed_kubernetes/configuring-kubectl-on-an-ovh-managed-kubernetes-cluster)

## Instructions

### Step 1: Create a privileged DaemonSet and define the value to modify

Create a YAML named `sysctl-tuner-daemonset.yaml` with the content below:

> ```yaml

Reviewer: Maybe use a smaller indentation? (2 spaces for example?)

apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: DaemonSet
metadata:
    name: sysctl-tuner
spec:
    selector:
        matchLabels:
            name: sysctl-tuner
    template:
        metadata:
            labels:
                name: sysctl-tuner
        spec:
            containers:
                - name: sysctl
                  image: busybox
                  securityContext:
                      privileged: true
                  command:
                      - sh
                      - -c
                      - "sysctl -w fs.inotify.max_user_watches=<value>" # Define the value you need
            hostNetwork: true
            hostPID: true
            tolerations:
                - operator: "Exists" # Allow running on all nodes, including tainted ones
```

> Define the value of the sysctl key `fs.inotify.max_user_watches` based on your applications' needs.

Reviewer: Is this line needed?

Author: Yes, you're totally right, fixing this

Thomas

The DaemonSet will set the sysctl parameter `fs.inotify.max_user_watches` with the value you provided in the DaemonSet configuration on all nodes deployed into your Kubernetes Cluster.

> [!primary]
>
> Multiple sysctl parameters can be modified and adapted for your use cases. You can list them by running this command : 
> 
> ```bash
> $ kubectl run busybox --image=busybox:latest --rm=true -it --privileged=true -- sysctl -a
> ```
> 

> > This command will create a privileged busybox pod, will print all "sysctl" variables then delete the pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This command will create a privileged busybox pod that prints all available sysctl values and deletes the pod.
```

## Step 2: Test if the changes were applied correctly

> In order to check if the Inotify value has been changed properly, you can escalate a shell into a pod : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to check if the inotify value has been changed properly, you can execute a shell into a pod: 
```

```bash 
$ kubectl exec -it <pod> -- cat /proc/sys/fs/inotify/max_user_watches
```

The output should be the same as the value you defined in the DaemonSet YAML defined above.

> Congratulations ! You've successfully modified the maximum Inotify "max_user_watches" value on your Managed Kubernetes Service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You've successfully modified the maximum inotify "max_user_watches" value on your Managed Kubernetes Service.
```
